It's time for us to do the autocomplete.
We're gonna make it happen.
And I think at this point, we've learned
enough of the little pieces along the way.
That is going to be less
painful than we all imagined.
Because we have walked down this
road together, and here we are.
So, if I just look quickly at this UI,
that's not it.
I look quickly at this UI,
it's got a search field.
There is a fetch button, in case I
wanted to fetch them by hand manually.
We're gonna say, as they type in here,
I want to show at least some
of the names onto the page.
Well, we'll use a button later.
Cool, so
the thing about what we need to do.
Well, we know that we need to get
the value of the input, right?
We've dealt a lot with buttons, but
we are gonna need an input field and
a value that we're working with.
So let's go ahead, and
that's not nothing super surprising here.
We'll say that our search
stream is from the event
of that search field,
which I've got cached already.
And really,
we care about input at this point.
Right, whenever they put new input in
there, that's when we want to jump in and
deal with it.
But as with most things, like vary use
like a framework namely react, you
know that it's not just the event that you
need, it's the event target value, right?
So, what's in this search
field that we really need?
So we can actually grab map at that
point cuz this is not an observable.
It's not anything asynchronous,
simply a value.
We'll go ahead, and
we'll grab the event Target value, right?
So now, whenever there's input,
we haven't subscribed to it yet.
But we'll get it, and
we'll get the value of that.
Well, input is a little, yeah, we'll get
the value of the input field itself.
Input will be whenever they
change a letter in it, or
something along those lines.
Cool, and we have two choices here.
I can put a merge map in here,
or I can use a different map.
What kind of map do we want to merge?
Because we're gonna have
to make a fetch from here.
Let's try marshmallow.
Let's do it.
Let's learn together.
Map, we'll take the search term.
Because we know we want to make a fetch.
And from here, we'll say we'll
return from fetch our endpoint.
And this is, I happen to know that
the endpoint is, if you look.
Surely, we wanna change
this one a little bit.
Cuz we're gonna put that delay on the end.
[SOUND] Maybe, we spell search right.
Sweet, I think the endpoint
in there was more helpful.
But we've got this search, where I should
be able to do API pokemons search pika.
Let's just verify that real quick
before I get too far ahead of myself.
Yep, there's Pikachu.
And we don't get a lot
of data about Pikachu.
We'll learn more about Pikachu later.
Right now, all we know is his
number 25 and the pokey dex.
His name is Pikachu, and
he's a mouse pokemon.
So we can search from fetch.
And then,
we'll say + whatever the search term was.
Right, that's gonna be
a little bit problematic,
so we also need to go ahead and get the.
It's not problematic,
it's just that we know that we
need the response cuz of that.
So, we say pipe, so
another merge map in there.
And we will say that we
want to do response.
Response to JSON, right?
We know that.
And when that's all done,
when we've got everything,
we will clear the results from the page.
We'll add.
I want to actually just.
So if you looked at the API before,
I want to actually just get the array so.
There's an operator.
Another, I could use map.
The other thing I could use is pluck.
And pluck,
you might have seen it from lodash,
pluck will just grab a given field.
So in this case, we want pluck to do
a little bit data manipulation here.
So we just want that array in there.
And then, we'll add results.
And then,
we'll subscribe to that search event.
Now, I could do the add results
in the subscribe as well.
I'm just kind of showing you can do both.
All right, great.
This is not gonna work perfectly.
We know that.
Some of you are like, why isn't he?
I'm not, we're not doing that yet.
We're gonna see how it behaves,
first and foremost.
Let's make sure it doesn't
blow up at all first.
So, it works great in a very
fine situation, right?
But what happens if we add just
a little bit of chaos energy here?
All right, what happens when we
say delay could be like a second.
Little, with a little
bit of fuzziness to it.
All right, and we'll say,
actually Bulbasaur.
No, actually Charmander.
And sometimes it works out.
But you can see that it's kind
of all over the place, right?
Other requests that we're
doing even had pika, and
there was a pidgey on there, right?
Because the requests are coming
back at the wrong time.
We don't care about the previous requests,
what should we do?
>> Switch map.
And the one thing that I wanna show you.
That's kinda nice from using from fetch.
If we go in here,
we've got our network requests.
You can actually see that from fetch,
it's actually full on canceling
those requests for you.
So every time we use a switch map, and
we've unsubscribed from that observable,
not only are we not
listening to the response.
We're also just full on
canceling that request.
Now, what would we do to just kinda tie
in some previous things all together?
What would we do if we wanted to wait
a little bit of time before we even sent
that request?
>> Debounce.
>> Debounce,
this is probably debounce time, right?
Do I have that imported already?
Debounce time.
Okay, so here we could say
when an input event happens.
We'll debounce time.
Let's say like 300 milliseconds.
So now, instead of like,
we can cancel those requests.
They're still going out though.
The server doesn't know
that they're canceled.
The browser knows, server doesn't.
So we now, we can say, okay,
only when they pause, right?
Kind of pulling in what we saw before,
when we implemented that notification.
When they chill out for
about 300 milliseconds, then will.
And you can do this, the order really.
And then, we'll go file the request.
So now, if we take a look at the network
panel down here, we can go like.
Nothing, until we stop typing for what
felt like a reasonable amount of time.
So now, we don't thrash through
canceling all those requests.
We can simply say,
only do this while things are happening.
The other thing that we can do, and
this won't actually do anything,
I'm just kind of,
I just wanna point it out.
Is we have this operate called distinct
until changed, which basically won't.
If it's the same value as it was
last time, don't do anything, right?
Now, between our switch map, and the fact
that input fields only admit when they've
changed, doesn't really do a lot for us.
But, I kind of just want to
make you aware that it exists.
So we'll get that value.
We'll say distinct until changed.
And so now, even if.
We really want that on the endpoint,
though.
That worked, but
that's not where I meant to put it.
It'll work either way, but
it was a string concatenated.
So, if it's the same value like debounce,
if for some reason you get to that.
I mean, this could actually,
theoretically, work.
Cuz the input field is gonna change.
But, even after 300 milliseconds,
if it's the same value as last time,
don't send another request.
Right, so now, we are really trying to
treat the backend team nicely here.
Right, so chill out F until they
stopped for 300 milliseconds.
Then, go get the value
of that input field.
If it's the same thing it was last time,
we don't need different results.
This isn't changing, right?
Otherwise, go with the most
recent request that we received.
Forget all the other ones, and
then we'll show it onto the page.
And effectively, that's
an autocomplete in our ext js, right?
Now, I just want to, again,
talk about, if we started with that,
you might have cried.
But as you build up all the small pieces,
right?
All these things,
that we've kind of done over the way,
kind of all begin to snap together.
And become one kind of solid
workflow in this case.
If I just wanted to show the name here,
I could also, theoretically, map over it.
Pull out just a given property,
and so on and so forth.